BABIES HAVE A LOT TO LEARN
IN THEIR FIRST YEAR OF LIFE,
MORE IN FACT THAN THEY WILL
BE EXPECTED TO LEARN
IN THEIR FIRST
YEAR OF SCHOOL.
TAKING CARE OF THIS NEW
LIFE IS FUN AND EXCITING
BUT CAN BE ANXIETY
PROVOKING AS WELL.
YOU'LL BE GLAD TO
KNOW THAT THE NATURAL
INSECURITY YOU MAY BE
FEELING IS MANAGEABLE
WITH REASSURING ADVICE,
DOWN-TO-EARTH INFORMATION
AND LOTS OF PRACTICE.
HI, I'M MARLENE HILTON. I'M
A MOTHER OF TWO LITTLE BOYS
AND YOUR HOST FOR
STEPS AND STAGES:
A CAREGIVER'S GUIDE TO
CHILD DEVELOPMENT.
THIS INFORMATIONAL VIDEO
WILL WALK YOU THROUGH
THE DEVELOPMENTAL
MILESTONES OF BABIES
FROM BIRTH TO FIFTEEN MONTHS.
AS A PARENT OR CAREGIVER
IT'S IMPORTANT TO MONITOR
THE NATURAL DEVELOPMENT
OF YOUR BABY.
YOUR INVOLVEMENT CAN
GREATLY ENHANCE
BABY'S SOCIAL AND
COGNITIVE GROWTH
FROM THE MOMENT HE COMES
HOME FROM THE HOSPITAL.
SOME OF THE MILESTONES WE'LL
ADDRESS ARE EASY TO IDENTIFY
SUCH AS SITTING,
CRAWLING AND WALKING.
BUT DO YOU KNOW AT WHAT
AGE THESE MILESTONES
SHOULD BE REACHED?
WHAT CAN YOU DO TO HELP
BABY'S DEVELOPMENT?
AND WHAT SHOULD YOU DO IF
BABY IS NOT DEVELOPING
AS HE SHOULD?
THIS VIDEO WILL ADDRESS
THOSE ISSUES AND MUCH MORE.
WE'LL START WITH NEWBORNS,
THE FIRST 4 WEEKS OF LIFE.
♪ ♪ ♪
WHO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT
THAT BABIES HAVE
SIX DIFFERENT TYPES OF CRIES?
AND IT'S YOUR CHALLENGE
AS A PARENT OR CAREGIVER
TO FIGURE OUT WHICH
CRY MEANS WHAT.
BABIES WILL CRY WHEN THEY ARE
HUNGRY, TIRED, WET OR DIRTY,
HAVE PAIN,
DISCOMFORT, OR TENSION
AND EVEN WHEN THEY ARE BORED.
DON'T WORRY, YOU'LL ONLY
NEED TO HEAR EACH CRY
A FEW TIMES BEFORE
YOU'LL SOON BE ABLE TO
DISTINGUISH AMONG THEM.
AND REST ASSURED, BABIES
WILL ALSO LET YOU KNOW
WHEN THEY ARE HAPPY AND
THAT IS A WONDERFUL SOUND.
WELL, NOW WITH HER BEING
JUST FOUR WEEKS,
SHE HAS HER CRY THAT
I CAN KIND OF DISTINGUISH.
I DISTINGUISHED
IT THE FIRST WEEK
'CAUSE SHE CRIES REAL HARD AND
IT'S AROUND THAT THREE HOUR
TIME WITH HER FEEDING.
SO, SHE GETS REAL
RED AND SHE'S READY.
IF I MAKE HER WAIT A
COUPLE OF MINUTES
TO WARM UP THE BOTTLE.
SO, WE KIND OF
DISTINGUISHED THAT
AFTER A COUPLE OF WEEKS.
HE HAS DIFFERENT CRIES FOR WHEN
HE NEEDS CHANGING AND FEEDING.
WHENEVER HE CRIES,
IF HE NEEDS FEEDING,
WE GIVE HIM A BOTTLE AND
IF THAT DOESN'T WORK,
I KNOW HE NEEDS CHANGING.
EVENTUALLY,
AT ABOUT SIX MONTHS,
CRYING WILL BECOME
LESS FREQUENT,
BUT UNTIL THEN, RESPONDING
TO A NEWBORN'S CRIES
WILL ENHANCE DEVELOPMENT BY
CREATING A SECURE BABY.
SUDDEN OR LOUD NOISES MAY
ALSO CAUSE A NEWBORN
TO CRY AS THEY ARE STARTLED
EASILY AT THIS AGE.
HOWEVER THIS SAME STARTLE
REFLEX IS AN IMPORTANT
DEVELOPMENTAL MILESTONE
AND WILL BE APPARENT
FOR UP TO SIX MONTHS OF LIFE.
ANOTHER REFLEX APPARENT FROM
BIRTH IS THE ROOTING REFLEX.
A NEWBORN WHOSE CHEEK IS
GENTLY STROKED
WILL TURN IN THE
DIRECTION OF THE STIMULUS,
MOUTH OPEN READY TO SUCKLE.
NEWBORNS WILL ALSO USE
THEIR STEPPING REFLEX
IF HELD UPRIGHT ON A FLAT
SURFACE AND THEY WILL
ACTUALLY APPEAR
TO BE WALKING.
THE PALMER GRASP AND
PLANTAR GRASP ARE FUN
TO PRACTICE WITH
NEWBORNS AS WELL.
THE PALMER REFLEX WILL
CAUSE A BABY TO GRASP
YOUR FINGER IF YOU PRESS
IT AGAINST HER PALM,
WHEREAS THE PLANTAR
REFLEX CAUSES TOE CURLING
WHEN YOU RUN YOUR FINGER
ALONG THE BOTTOM
OF A BABY'S FOOT.
HEY, CAMERON.
ALTHOUGH THEY ARE UNABLE
TO TALK JUST YET,
BABIES ARE LEARNING TO
COMMUNICATE FROM DAY ONE,
SO IT'S A GOOD IDEA TO
SMILE AND TALK TO YOUR BABY
AT ALL TIMES, WHILE
CHANGING DIAPERS, BATHING,
AND FEEDING.
FROM BIRTH, NEWBORNS ARE
ABLE TO FOCUS ON OBJECTS
WITHIN 8 TO 15 INCHES, SO
THEY CAN SEE YOU AND HEAR YOU.
THIS COMMUNICATION
ENHANCES A BABY'S
DEVELOPMENT AND
SOCIALIZATION SKILLS.
NEWBORNS WILL ALSO
QUICKLY LEARN TO FOLLOW
A HUMAN FACE WITH THEIR
EYES AND RESPOND TO
A VOICE WITH THEIR
HEAD AND EYES.
SO ALTHOUGH, THEY WON'T BE
TALKING FOR MANY MORE MONTHS,
THEY'VE ALREADY BEGUN
TO COMMUNICATE WITH YOU
ON A SPECIAL LEVEL.
SHE'S BECOMING MORE AWARE
OF MY VOICE EVERY DAY.
THE FIRST TEN DAYS THEY
REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND
YOUR VOICE.
THEY START TO GET
TO KNOW YOUR VOICE.
AND SHE'S LOOKING
AT ME A LOT MORE.
I'VE JUST NOTICED
THE LAST WEEK.
SHE'S LIKE, "OH!"
YOU KNOW, AND STUDYING MY FACE.
HE'S STARTING TO
HOLD HIS HEAD UP.
HE COOS A LITTLE.
HE SMILES, YOU
KNOW, IN HIS SLEEP.
HE SMILES AT US.
IF YOUR BABY SEEMS NOT TO
BE REACHING ONE OR MORE
OF THE MILESTONES DISCUSSED
THROUGHOUT THIS PROGRAM,
ON A CONSISTENT BASIS,
YOU MIGHT WANT
TO CHECK WITH YOUR DOCTOR.
HOWEVER, KEEP IN MIND
THAT CHILDREN DEVELOP
AT DIFFERENT RATES SO THE
DIFFERENCES YOU MAY NOTICE
COULD BE QUITE NORMAL.
♪ ♪ ♪
BY THE END OF THE FIRST
MONTH YOUR BABY WILL PROBABLY
BE ABLE TO LIFT HER HEAD
BRIEFLY WHEN ON HER STOMACH
AND HOLD HER HEAD STEADY FOR A
FEW SECONDS WHEN HELD UPRIGHT
SHE MAY ALSO BE ABLE TO
FOCUS ON A FACE,
VOCALIZE IN WAYS
OTHER THEN CRYING,
LIKE COOING OR SMILING IN
RESPONSE TO YOUR SMILE.
BY MONTH TWO YOU AS A
PARENT OR CAREGIVER
ARE GAINING SOME CONFIDENCE.
IT BEGINS TO FEEL LIKE SHE
IS JUST A REAL LITTLE PERSON.
YOU KNOW, AS A BABY, THEY
DEPEND SO MUCH ON YOU
FOR EVERYTHING.
AND SHE STILL, YOU KNOW,
NEEDS ME FOR EVERYTHING
BUT WHEN SHE
BEGINS TO COMMUNICATE,
IT'S A GREAT FEELING.
THE SATISFACTION THAT
SHE'S HAPPY AND, YOU KNOW,
IS LOVED AND
UNDERSTANDS THAT.
WITHIN A MONTH, AS YOUR
BABY STARTS LAUGHING,
PLAYING WITH HER HANDS
AND FEET, GRASPING ITEMS
AND BRINGING HER HANDS
TOGETHER FOR PATTY CAKE,
IT DAWNS ON YOU THAT THIS
LITTLE PERSON DEPENDS ON YOU
EACH DAY FOR FOOD,
COMFORT, LOVE AND REASSURANCE
AND YOU
ARE DOING A GREAT JOB!
FOR MOST PARENTS AND
CAREGIVERS,
COOING IS A WELCOME
STEP UP FROM CRYING
ON THE COMMUNICATION LADDER.
AND IT'S JUST
THE BEGINNING.
FROM 1 TO 3 MONTHS OF
AGE, BABY WILL START
LAUGHING OUT LOUD,
SQUEALING AND EVEN
ADDING A FEW CONSONANTS
TO HER REPERTOIRE.
WHEN BABIES BEGIN
EXPERIMENTING WITH CONSONANTS
THEY USUALLY DISCOVER
ONE OR TWO AT A TIME
AND REPEAT THE
SAME COMBINATION.
GET READY FOR MA-MA, DA-DA,
JU-JU, WA-WA
AND MANY MORE FUN NAMES.
NOW IS THE PERFECT TIME
TO HELP ENHANCE
YOUR BABY'S COMMUNICATION
MILESTONES.
IT'S A GOOD IDEA TO TALK
TO HER THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
AND FOCUS ON A LOT OF DIRECT
FACE-TO-FACE COMMUNICATION.
WE ARE ALWAYS SINGING.
CARLY HAS AN OLDER SISTER
AND BETWEEN HER AND I,
WE'RE CONSTANTLY SINGING
FUN SONGS, ACTIVE SONGS,
AND THEN ALSO WHEN IT'S
TIME TO SETTLE DOWN,
WE'LL SING LULLABYS, WE'LL
EVEN PUT SOFT MUSIC ON
AND CARLY HAS BEEN ABLE TO
TELL THE DIFFERENCE
OF WHEN IT'S TIME TO PLAY WITH
THE FUN, HAPPY SONGS
VERSUS WHEN IT'S TIME TO
CALM DOWN WITH THE LULLABYS.
MOTOR SKILLS CAN ALSO BE
DEVELOPED AT THIS TIME
BY CLAPPING AND BOUNCING TO
MUSIC, AS WELL AS PLAYING GAMES
THAT REQUIRE THE BABY TO
GRASP AND REACH FOR ITEMS.
ENCOURAGING THE DEVELOPMENT
OF ALL THE SENSES -
SIGHT, SOUND, TOUCH,
TASTE AND EVEN SMELL
WILL CONTRIBUTE
TO BABY'S INTELLECTUAL GROWTH.
♪ ♪ ♪
READY, SET AND
ROLL OVER, BABY.
IT'S MONTH FOUR AND ROLLING
OVER, AT LEAST ONE WAY,
IS JUST ONE OF THE MANY
MILESTONES PARENTS
AND CAREGIVERS WILL BE
LOOKING FOR IN MONTHS 4 TO 7
THE FUN IS JUST BEGINNING
AS BABY LEARNS TO HOLD
HIS HEAD UP AND KEEP IT
STEADY WHEN ON HIS STOMACH.
AND OOPS, NO MORE LEAVING
BABY STRANDED ON HIS BACK,
HE'S LEARNED TO ROLL OVER
FROM FRONT TO BACK.
THAT ALSO MEANS HE CAN EASILY
ROLL OFF THE COUCH OR BED
SO WATCH OUT.
BEFORE YOU KNOW IT,
BETWEEN 5 AND 7 MONTHS,
BABY CAN BEAR
WEIGHT ON HER LEGS,
HOLD HER HEAD
UPRIGHT WHEN SITTING
AND WILL SOON
LEARN HOW TO STAND.
SHE DOES HOLD
HER HEAD UP MORE.
SHE LIKES TO STAND.
WHEN SHE WAS YOUNGER SHE
HATED TO STAND,
BEAR WEIGHT ON HER LEGS.
NOW SHE LOVES TO STAND.
HOLD HER UP IN YOUR LAP
AND SHE JUST LOVES IT.
HE SITS UP A LOT BETTER
THAN HE USED TO.
HE STILL KINDA TIPS OVER
A LITTLE BIT BUT
HE DOES PRETTY GOOD AT THAT.
HE CAN LAY ON HIS STOMACH
A LITTLE BIT BETTER.
HE KINDA DOES THE WHOLE
SWING THING LIKE, YOU KNOW,
HE'S GETTING READY TO CRAWL.
AND I THINK PROBABLY
HIS TALKING.
HE'S TALKING.
HE DOES A LOT OF
THE, YOU KNOW,
THE BABA'S AND STUFF LIKE
THAT AND IT'S GREAT.
PLAYTIME IS MORE
INTERACTIVE NOW AS BABY
LEARNS TO BAT AT OBJECTS,
SMILE OR MIMIC SOMEONE,
TURN HIS HEAD IN THE
DIRECTION OF SOUND
AND LOOK FOR OBJECTS THAT
HAVE MOVED OUT OF SIGHT.
THIS IS A PERFECT
TIME FOR FUNNY FACES,
PEEK-A-BOO, HIDE-AND-GO-SEEK
AND BUILDING BLOCKS.
ENCOURAGE BABY TO FIND
PARTIALLY HIDDEN OBJECTS,
GRASP FOR THINGS JUST
OUT OF REACH AND
EXPLORE OBJECTS WITH HIS
HANDS AND MOUTH.
MAKE SURE TO KEEP SMALL
OBJECTS AND CHOKING HAZARDS
OUT OF BABY'S REACH.
FIVE AND SIX MONTH OLDS
ALSO BEGIN TO EAT
A LARGER VARIETY OF FOODS.
SO YOU'LL SEE YOUR BABY
BRING FOOD TO HIS MOUTH,
TRANSFER OBJECTS FROM ONE
HAND TO ANOTHER, AND IF
YOU'RE NOT CAREFUL, YOU
MAY EVEN EXPERIENCE
A LITTLE FOOD ON YOUR FACE,
AND EVERYWHERE ELSE.
BABY'S COMMUNICATION
SKILLS CONTINUE TO
DEVELOP AT THIS STAGE.
CONTINUE TO EXPOSE BABY
TO LANGUAGE BY READING,
TALKING, SINGING
AND PLAYING MUSIC.
YOU'LL SOON BE REWARDED WHEN
BABY MAKES BUZZING NOISES
AND SAYS SOME SIMPLE WORDS -
EVEN IF SHE DOESN'T KNOW
WHAT THEY MEAN.
WE DO SING TO HER.
WE'LL MAKE UP LITTLE SONGS
ESPECIALLY DURING BATHTIME.
AND SHE REALLY LIKES THAT.
SHE TALKS AND I MIMIC HER
TO TRY AND GET HER
TO MIMIC ME BACK AND
THAT KIND OF THING.
HE TALKS.
HE SAYS DA-DA AND GA-GA
AND GOO-GOO WHICH IS,
YOU KNOW, YOU NEVER REALLY
THOUGHT THAT BABIES
REALLY SAID THAT BUT
THEY ACTUALLY DO.
TRY TO GIVE BABY PLENTY
OF TIME ON HER STOMACH
TO PRACTICE PUSHING UP,
ROLLING OVER, SCOOTING
AND CRAWLING.
MOTOR SKILLS CAN BE
FURTHER DEVELOPED
BY HELPING BABY PRACTICE
SITTING UP AND STANDING.
GET READY BECAUSE
BABY IS ON THE MOVE.
♪ ♪ ♪
AS BABY GETS OLDER SHE
MAY ALSO BE GETTING
LOUDER AND MESSIER.
SHE'S DISCOVERING HER
NEWFOUND INDEPENDENCE
AND ENJOYS ROAMING AROUND
AND MAKING A MESS.
TO BABY, THE WORLD IS
GROWING BY LEAPS AND BOUNDS.
GIVE HER A CHANCE TO
EXPLORE AND LEARN TO
HELP PROMOTE HER CONTINUED
PHYSICAL, SOCIAL,
INTELLECTUAL AND
EMOTIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
FROM MONTH 8 TO BABY'S
FIRST BIRTHDAY,
SHE'LL BE BANGING OBJECTS
TOGETHER, SITTING BY HERSELF,
CRAWLING AND SCOOTING,
FEEDING HERSELF,
AND DRINKING FROM A CUP.
BYE-BYE.
IT MAY ALSO BE HARDER AT THIS
TIME TO SEPARATE FROM BABY.
ALTHOUGH SHE HAS LEARNED
TO WAVE BYE-BYE,
SHE WON'T LIKE TO SAY IT
TO A PARENT OR FAVORITE
CAREGIVER AS SEPARATION
ANXIETY MAKES HER FEARFUL
THAT HER LOVED ONE
MAY NOT COME BACK.
WHEN I LEAVE, I JUST
SIMPLY TELL HER "BYE".
I GIVE HER A KISS.
SHE GIVES ME A KISS BACK.
WHEN I COME HOME IT'S LIKE
HER FACE JUST LIGHTS UP
BECAUSE MOMMY'S HOME.
IF SHE STARTS TO CRY THEN
I'LL JUST PAT HER AND SAY
"LOOK, I'LL BE RIGHT
BACK" AND THEN I'LL LEAVE.
THEN SHE'LL JUST STARE AT
ME THE WHOLE TIME
WHEN I'M WALKING AWAY AND
THEN I COME BACK
AND THEN EVERYTHING'S OKAY.
COMMUNICATION WITH THESE
LITTLE ONES WILL
CONTINUE TO IMPROVE AS MORE
SIMPLE WORDS ARE LEARNED.
BABY WILL LEARN TO
RESPOND TO HER NAME,
IMITATE SOUNDS AND
USE HAND GESTURES
TO COMMUNICATE
WHAT SHE WANTS.
AS BABY EXPLORES NEW ITEMS TELL
HER THE NAME OF THE OBJECT
POINT OUT THE NAMES OF
ITEMS IN PICTURES
AND CONTINUE TO READ TO HER
AS OFTEN AS YOU CAN.
ENCOURAGE BABY TO IMITATE
YOU, PLAY MEMORY GAMES
AND SEQUENCING GAMES.
REMEMBER WHEN YOU
APPLAUDED WILDLY
BABY'S FIRST SUCCESSFUL
ATTEMPT AT PULLING UP?
AND CHEERED PROUDLY FROM
THE SIDELINES
AS CREEPING FINALLY BECAME
CRAWLING AND SOON WALKING?
WELL, NOW YOU MAY BE
WONDERING WHAT ALL THE
CELEBRATION WAS ABOUT.
ALONG WITH BABY'S NEW
MOBILITY HAS COME
A TALENT FOR GETTING
INTO TROUBLE.
BUT TRY TO AVOID SAYING
NO TO EVERYTHING.
TRICKS OF THE TRADE
INCLUDE FILLING CUPBOARDS
WITH OBJECTS AND LETTING
BABY DISCOVER THEM.
FOR THE MOMENT,
FORGET ABOUT KEEPING
A NEAT HOUSE OR PLAY AREA.
I LIKE TO LEAVE MY HOUSE
PRETTY MUCH BABY-PROOF
SO THAT THEY CAN CRAWL
AROUND AND EXPLORE AND DO
WHATEVER THEY LIKE TO DO.
I HAVE THE CABINETS
THAT THEY CAN GET IN.
CERTAIN ONES AND THEY CAN
PLAY WITH THINGS
'CAUSE I THINK IT'S REAL
IMPORTANT THAT THEY
EXPLORE YOUR HOUSE AND
THINGS THAT ARE AROUND.
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT FOR
THE FIRST TIME, YOU MIGHT
BE UPSET BY RATHER THAN
PROUD OF BABY'S EXPLOITS.
AND FOR THE FIRST TIME
THE QUESTION OF
DISCIPLINE MAY COME UP.
THOUGH IT WILL BE A LONG TIME
BEFORE BABY WILL FULLY GRASP IT
NOW IS THE TIME TO BEGIN
TEACHING RIGHT FROM WRONG
THROUGH EXAMPLE AND
GENTLE GUIDANCE.
SAFETY ALSO BECOMES A
LARGER ISSUE IN THE
SECOND HALF OF
THE FIRST YEAR.
NEWLY ACQUIRED SKILLS
UNMATCHED BY GOOD JUDGMENT
MAKE BABIES EXTREMELY
HAZARDOUS TO THEIR OWN HEALTH.
MINIMIZE THE POSSIBILITY
OF AN ACCIDENT BY
ELIMINATING DANGERS TO BABY
IN THE HOME OR PLAY AREA.
♪ ♪ ♪
FIRST WORDS AND FIRST STEPS.
WITH THESE MILESTONES IN HER
CAP, BABY IS OFF AND RUNNING
IN THE MONTHS TO COME,
BABY WILL ENTER THE WORLD
OF TODDLERS AND YOU'LL
BE AMAZED AT HOW QUICKLY
WADDLING AND WALKING
TURNS INTO A MARATHON RUN.
AND WATCH THOSE STAIRS!
THEY ARE IRRESISTIBLE
FOR THESE LITTLE MOVERS,
SHAKERS AND CLIMBERS.
BABY WILL NOW BE ABLE TO
STACK TOYS, BEND OVER
AND DRINK FROM A CUP.
EXPERTS SAY YOU CAN
PROMOTE BABY'S DEVELOPMENT
BY PLAYING MEMORY
GAMES AND PUZZLES.
ENCOURAGE HAND SKILLS
BY PROVIDING TOYS
WITH TEXTURES TO FEEL.
LET BABY CLIMB AND CONTINUE
TO DISCOVER HER WORLD.
SHE LOVES TO CLIMB
ON HER SLIDE.
AND SHE CAN SLIDE, WHICH
SHE COULDN'T DO
AT HER BIRTHDAY PARTY.
SHE COULDN'T SLIDE BUT NOW
SHE CAN SLIDE BY HERSELF.
CAN WALK A LOT BETTER
AND CAN TALK A LOT MORE.
IT SEEMS LIKE EVERY DAY
SHE HAS A NEW WORD
THAT SHE'S SAYING.
HI.
COMMUNICATION ALSO
BECOMES EASIER
AS BABY CAN NOW
UNDERSTAND SIMPLE COMMANDS
AND LISTEN TO SHORT STORIES.
IT'S TIME NOW TO
PHASE OUT BABY TALK.
TRY TO PRONOUNCE WORDS
CLEARLY,
CONTINUE TO LABEL OBJECTS
AND DON'T BE SURPRISED
WHEN BABY TALKS BACK.
ALL OF YOUR HARD WORK
HAS PAID OFF AND
NOW YOU HAVE A LITTLE PERSON
WHO WANTS TO PLAY WITH YOU,
GO FOR A WALK
OR JUST SIT AND TALK.
♪ ♪ ♪
BABY HAS COME A LONG WAY.
FROM A NEWBORN WHOSE ONLY WAY
OF COMMUNICATING WAS CRYING
AND WHO UNDERSTOOD NOTHING
BUT HIS OWN PRIMAL NEEDS,
TO A SIX-MONTH-OLD WHO WAS
BEGINNING TO ARTICULATE SOUNDS,
COMPREHEND WORDS AND EXPRESS
ANGER, FRUSTRATION
AND HAPPINESS
TO AN EIGHT-MONTH-OLD WHO
WAS ABLE TO CONVEY MESSAGES
THROUGH SOUNDS AND GESTURES,
AND NOW, TO A FIFTEEN-MONTH-OLD
WHO HAS UTTERED OR WILL SOON
UTTER HIS REAL FIRST WORDS.
AND YET WITH ALL THESE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
ALREADY BEHIND HIM, BABY
STILL HAS MORE
ASTOUNDING GROWTH UP AHEAD.
ENJOY EVERY MOMENT OF IT.
AND REMEMBER THAT YOUR
INVOLVEMENT, WHETHER AS
A PARENT OR A CAREGIVER,
WILL GREATLY AFFECT
BABY'S GROWTH
AND DEVELOPMENT.
FROM NEWBORN TO 15 MONTHS,